RFC: `trits` module (#10)
iotaledger/bee-rfcs: text/0010-trits-module/0010-trits-module.md

+ Feature name: `trits-module`
+ Start date: 2019-09-20
+ RFC PR: [iotaledger/bee-rfcs#10](https://github.com/iotaledger/bee-rfcs/pull/10)
+ Bee issue: [iotaledger/bee#45](https://github.com/iotaledger/bee/issues/45)

# Summary

This RFC proposes a `trits` interface to standardise the usage of different underlying encodings and their conversions from one to another.

# Motivation

A `trit` is a digit in base `3` and is often represented by the set `{-1, 0, +1}`. This representation is called balanced ternary and the object represented in such a way a `balanced trit`. Further reading: http://homepage.divms.uiowa.edu/~jones/ternary/bct.shtml.

> To work with trits on a binary machine, the most apparent solution is to encode them with the mapping `one balanced trit -> one signed byte`. This, however, is not very memory efficient, because a `byte` can represent `256` different values, while a `trit` only represents `3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work with trits on a binary machine, the most apparent solution is to encode them with the mapping `one balanced trit -> one signed byte`. This, however, is not very memory efficient, because a `byte` can represent `256` different values and is able to store multiple trits through encoding methods.
```

In the IOTA ecosystem, different trit encodings are used in different situations like:

> - hashing is done on raw trits because IOTA uses ternary hash functions like `Curl` or `Troika`;

Reviewer 2: Maybe explain the difference between raw trits and non raw trits.

> - hashing is done on raw trits because IOTA uses ternary hash functions like `Curl` or `Troika`;

Reviewer 3: Maybe explain what is meant with `raw` trits. A reader might ask if there exists something like non-raw trits and if yes how it differs.
